# ANSC6100_Project

### Introduction
Researchers have found that rates of cancer death in the US have decreased by 21% between 1991 and 2020, however, cancer remains one of the leading causes of death in the US and Canada (Kopec et al., 2024; Viale, 2020). The decrease in cancer death rates can partially be attributed to decreased smoking rates, but improvements in treatments and therapies have had profound impacts (Viale, 2020). Due to their role in cell proliferation, differentiation and survival, receptors from the ErbB family have been studied as potential targets in cancer treatments (Appert-Collin et al., 2015). Numerous studies have found that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), of the ErbB family, is overexpressed in tumours such as lung cancer, breast cancer, kidney, and colon cancer tissues (Herbst 2004). Since it is overly abundant in cancerous tissues compared to normal tissues, inhibitory treatments targeting this receptor are able to selectively focus on affected cells and reduce the cell proliferation effects seen with excess EGFR (Herbst 2004). Recently, there have been fourteen EGFR inhibitors approved globally for the use of cancer treatment (Abourehab et al., 2021). With the use of experimental data, including from these approved treatments and other clinical trials, it is anticipated that machine learning models can be trained on this existing data and subsequently predict the effectiveness of new drugs in their EGFR-reducing capabilities based on each compound’s structural characteristics.

### Problem statement
Test edit to make sure directory is connected to Github. Test edit to make sure I can pull changes to local directory.
